---
title: A real blog post
date :   2011-05-09 11:43
category : uncategorized
---

Isn\'t a blog supposed to be about the musings of the blogger? I have
done a lot of reporting of projects that I have finished. This summer I
am going to try and post more works in progress and expose process a
little more.

As an artist I try to just get things done. I rarely focus on code
quality while developing and when a project works I almost never clean
up the code for others to look at it. I\'ll try and fix that this
summer. I have been playing with [github](http://github.com/) to help me
explore my code over time and look at the development of code by some
other art practitioners.

I have also been investigating [drupal](http://drupal.org/) as a CMS.
Right now, my website uses [indexhibit](http://www.indexhibit.org/) for
the main site and a wordpress install for the blog. I am looking for a
system that do everything and integrate with everything. I looked at
[Joomla](http://www.joomla.org/) once, but we mostly didn\'t get along.

You may have noticed [my html5
experiment](http://www.adamtindale.com/html5/) for the website. My
problem with handrolling a site, besides the obvious, is compatibility.
I\'d love to have a site that changed to an appropriate form for every
platform that happened to land here. I would like a wild animation if
your browser could handle it, and something more simple yet interesting
for iPhones, lower end Android devices, and all of the other
[interesting things that are now on the
internet.](http://www.readwriteweb.com/archives/internet_fridges.php)

I don\'t have comments enabled on this blog. If you have ideas or
comments send me an email or hit me up on twitter. I\'d prefer to talk
in public so let\'s talk on twitter. Let\'s try #fixadamswebsite for the
tag to keep the conversation together. Be patient with me though, I am
thinking that revamping my website will take the next 4 months.

<http://twitter.com/adamtindale>

Over the summer I will update my website to help you few readers to get
what you want from this place a little easier and more relevant as you
explore. I\'ll also clean up my code and make it easier for you to find
so you can use it or investigate it.
